README.md, before:

# ☀️🧊 HVAC Design Assistant

**A smart AI-powered chatbot for HVAC engineering guidance using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)**

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live-Demo-blue?style=for-the-badge)](https://hvac-assistant.azurewebsites.net)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Containerized-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com)
[![Azure](https://img.shields.io/badge/Azure-Deployed-0078D4?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoft-azure)](https://azure.microsoft.com)

## 🚀 Overview

The HVAC Design Assistant is a sophisticated full-stack application that combines modern web technologies with advanced AI to provide intelligent HVAC engineering consultations. Built with a focus on accuracy and user experience, it leverages Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to deliver contextually relevant responses backed by authoritative HVAC documentation.

## ✨ Key Features

- **🤖 Intelligent AI Responses**: Powered by Azure OpenAI with context-aware answer synthesis
- **📚 Document-Grounded Answers**: RAG implementation using 11 technical HVAC documents processed into 672+ vector embeddings
- **🎯 Smart Query Filtering**: Automatically detects and handles HVAC-related queries
- **💬 Real-time Chat Interface**: Responsive React frontend with professional UI/UX
- **🔍 Source Attribution**: Transparent source citations for all responses
- **🐳 Containerized Deployment**: Full Docker support with multi-stage builds
- **☁️ Cloud-Native**: Deployed on Azure with container registry integration
- **📱 Mobile-Responsive**: Optimized for all device sizes

## 🛠️ Technical Architecture

### Backend (FastAPI + Python)
- **Framework**: FastAPI with async/await patterns
- **AI Integration**: Azure OpenAI GPT-4 with custom prompt engineering
- **Vector Database**: Qdrant for semantic document search
- **Document Processing**: 11 technical HVAC documents processed into 672+ vector embeddings
- **Smart Retrieval**: Context-aware document filtering and relevance scoring

### Frontend (React + JavaScript)
- **Framework**: React 18 with modern hooks
- **Styling**: Custom CSS with responsive design
- **State Management**: React useState with real-time updates
- **HTML Rendering**: Safe HTML rendering with sanitization
- **UX Features**: Typing indicators, error handling, sample questions

### Infrastructure & DevOps
- **Containerization**: Multi-stage Docker builds for optimization
- **Cloud Platform**: Azure Web Apps for Containers
- **Container Registry**: Azure Container Registry with automated deployments
- **Database**: Qdrant vector database for document embeddings
- **CI/CD**: Docker-based deployment pipeline

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AP-047/hvac-assistant.git
cd hvac-assistant
```

### 2. Environment Setup
```bash
# Backend environment
cd backend
cp .env.example .env
# Configure your Azure OpenAI and Qdrant credentials

# Frontend environment  
cd ../frontend
npm install
```

### 3. Docker Deployment (Recommended)
```bash
# Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build

# Access the application
# Frontend: http://localhost:3000
# Backend API: http://localhost:8000
```

### 4. Manual Setup
```bash
# Backend
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000

# Frontend (new terminal)
cd frontend
npm start
```

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
hvac-assistant/
├── 🐳 docker-compose.yml         # Multi-service orchestration
├── 📁 backend/
│   ├── 🐳 Dockerfile            # Python FastAPI container
│   ├── 📦 requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
│   └── 📁 app/
│       ├── 🚀 main.py           # FastAPI application entry
│       ├── 📁 routes/
│       │   └── 💬 chat.py       # Chat API endpoints
│       └── 📁 services/
│           ├── 🧠 llm.py        # AI response synthesis
│           └── 🔍 retrieval.py  # Document retrieval & filtering
├── 📁 frontend/
│   ├── 🐳 Dockerfile            # React production container
│   ├── 📦 package.json          # Node.js dependencies
│   └── 📁 src/
│       ├── ⚛️ App.js            # Main React component
│       └── 🎨 App.css           # Responsive styling
├── 📁 docs/sources/             # HVAC documentation corpus
└── 📁 scripts/
    └── 📊 ingest.py             # Document vectorization script
```

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

- [ ] **Multi-language Support**: Internationalization for global users
- [ ] **Advanced Filtering**: Filter by document type, date, or standard
- [ ] **User Authentication**: Personalized experience and usage tracking
- [ ] **Export Functionality**: Save conversations and generate reports
- [ ] **API Rate Limiting**: Enhanced security and usage management
- [ ] **Caching Layer**: Redis integration for improved response times

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Developed by AP-047** | [Portfolio](https://github.com/AP-047) | [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ap047)

*Built with ❤️ for the HVAC engineering community*

Commit message:

Add clarification note on document limitations in README.md for user guidance

README.md, after:

# ☀️🧊 HVAC Design Assistant

**A smart AI-powered chatbot for HVAC engineering guidance using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)**

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live-Demo-blue?style=for-the-badge)](https://hvac-assistant.azurewebsites.net)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Containerized-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com)
[![Azure](https://img.shields.io/badge/Azure-Deployed-0078D4?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoft-azure)](https://azure.microsoft.com)

## 🚀 Overview

The HVAC Design Assistant is a sophisticated full-stack application that combines modern web technologies with advanced AI to provide intelligent HVAC engineering consultations. Built with a focus on accuracy and user experience, it leverages Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to deliver contextually relevant responses backed by authoritative HVAC documentation.

> ℹ️ **Quick Note**: This assistant is currently powered by a limited collection of open-source HVAC documents. Due to copyright restrictions, many comprehensive technical resources cannot be included. Responses are intended as general guidance and may not always reflect the full accuracy or depth of professional standards.

## ✨ Key Features

- **🤖 Intelligent AI Responses**: Powered by Azure OpenAI with context-aware answer synthesis
- **📚 Document-Grounded Answers**: RAG implementation using 11 technical HVAC documents processed into 672+ vector embeddings
- **🎯 Smart Query Filtering**: Automatically detects and handles HVAC-related queries
- **💬 Real-time Chat Interface**: Responsive React frontend with professional UI/UX
- **🔍 Source Attribution**: Transparent source citations for all responses
- **🐳 Containerized Deployment**: Full Docker support with multi-stage builds
- **☁️ Cloud-Native**: Deployed on Azure with container registry integration
- **📱 Mobile-Responsive**: Optimized for all device sizes

## 🛠️ Technical Architecture

### Backend (FastAPI + Python)
- **Framework**: FastAPI with async/await patterns
- **AI Integration**: Azure OpenAI GPT-4 with custom prompt engineering
- **Vector Database**: Qdrant for semantic document search
- **Document Processing**: 11 technical HVAC documents processed into 672+ vector embeddings
- **Smart Retrieval**: Context-aware document filtering and relevance scoring

### Frontend (React + JavaScript)
- **Framework**: React 18 with modern hooks
- **Styling**: Custom CSS with responsive design
- **State Management**: React useState with real-time updates
- **HTML Rendering**: Safe HTML rendering with sanitization
- **UX Features**: Typing indicators, error handling, sample questions

### Infrastructure & DevOps
- **Containerization**: Multi-stage Docker builds for optimization
- **Cloud Platform**: Azure Web Apps for Containers
- **Container Registry**: Azure Container Registry with automated deployments
- **Database**: Qdrant vector database for document embeddings
- **CI/CD**: Docker-based deployment pipeline

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AP-047/hvac-assistant.git
cd hvac-assistant
```

### 2. Environment Setup
```bash
# Backend environment
cd backend
cp .env.example .env
# Configure your Azure OpenAI and Qdrant credentials

# Frontend environment  
cd ../frontend
npm install
```

### 3. Docker Deployment (Recommended)
```bash
# Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build

# Access the application
# Frontend: http://localhost:3000
# Backend API: http://localhost:8000
```

### 4. Manual Setup
```bash
# Backend
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000

# Frontend (new terminal)
cd frontend
npm start
```

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
hvac-assistant/
├── 🐳 docker-compose.yml         # Multi-service orchestration
├── 📁 backend/
│   ├── 🐳 Dockerfile            # Python FastAPI container
│   ├── 📦 requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
│   └── 📁 app/
│       ├── 🚀 main.py           # FastAPI application entry
│       ├── 📁 routes/
│       │   └── 💬 chat.py       # Chat API endpoints
│       └── 📁 services/
│           ├── 🧠 llm.py        # AI response synthesis
│           └── 🔍 retrieval.py  # Document retrieval & filtering
├── 📁 frontend/
│   ├── 🐳 Dockerfile            # React production container
│   ├── 📦 package.json          # Node.js dependencies
│   └── 📁 src/
│       ├── ⚛️ App.js            # Main React component
│       └── 🎨 App.css           # Responsive styling
├── 📁 docs/sources/             # HVAC documentation corpus
└── 📁 scripts/
    └── 📊 ingest.py             # Document vectorization script
```

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

- [ ] **Multi-language Support**: Internationalization for global users
- [ ] **Advanced Filtering**: Filter by document type, date, or standard
- [ ] **User Authentication**: Personalized experience and usage tracking
- [ ] **Export Functionality**: Save conversations and generate reports
- [ ] **API Rate Limiting**: Enhanced security and usage management
- [ ] **Caching Layer**: Redis integration for improved response times

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Developed by AP-047** | [Portfolio](https://github.com/AP-047) | [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ap047)

*Built with ❤️ for the HVAC engineering community*
